Hello and welcome back to the course on Paul VI in the person Tauriel we created this a wonderful map
and we learned how to create the profit margin calculated measure or a new measure.
And today we're going to go ahead and create a scatterplot.
So let's go and dive straight into it.
We're going to create a new page and we're going to like this solution scatter chart and and now we
just need to select what you want on the x and y axis.
So on x axis we want sales and on the y axis we want profit this fund profit yes.
And as you can see we only have one Alman because once again as we discussed in the editorial about
aggregation granularity and level of detail we haven't specified full power be-I at which level of detail
at which level of granularity we want this Alsation to be displayed or portrayed.
All we have here is the measure's rights of the items or the numeric values and numeric values on numeric
columns they get aggregated.
They don't actually specify the level of aggregation at which you want to use Alsation to be portrayed
to specify the level of aggregation you need to use categorical variables and other non numeric variables.
So how do we do that.
Well in our case we want we have to tell Part B at which level do we want to see this so do we want
to see the scatterplot at Region level.
Let's try that.
Let's put it into details here and see now you can see that we've got the region the north south and
the Central.
Well we don't really use regions so let's get rid of that bibulous replace it with states rights or
group conscious or country and country.
Now we've got a little circle for every country where we can sort of country can do city it will have
way more circles.
Again this is pulled in the geography and it's still at country level so we can drill into the city
level like that.
But that's not what we're after.
The scatterplot that we actually want to show should display our customers so that from the scatterplot
we can identify which of our customers are the most profitable or the least profitable customers for
us.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We're going to take customer name and drag it into details.
And as you can see that right away we've got this wonderful scatterplot right away.
And now we're going to add some additional information here.
We can already tell that by the prophet we can see that some customers are not profitable at all so
they're the transactions they've made have there's all the negative profits somehow resulting positive
profit but not what we're going to add is we're going to add the profit margin and we very calculated
this measure.
And as you remember Previously we used profit margins to go back to the profit margin when we were aggregating
by geography right.
So we use profit margin at the level of country or state or city and because profit margin is a calculated
measure rather than a calculated column it gets automatically updated to the level of granularity of
our results.
Well the good news is that it doesn't have to be a Joe graphic level of granularity.
We were not limited to specifying just geographies and really into other states CDO country and then
profit margin would be recounted.
We can still use the same exact profit margin the same exact formula same exact calculate measure we
have here in this is a position where we are specifying the level of granularity based on the customer
name.
So if you just look at the formula at the top you'll see that some of profit order break down profits
are some of profit divided by some of sales.
No we're here in the calculation does it say that we need to deal with geography just says that that's
take some of the profit at the level of granularity of your vessels.
So in this case per customer so some of the profits per every single customer and customers sometimes
make several orders and orders containing contains several items.
So some of all of the items for all of them are some of the profit for all items and all the orders
for for example for this customer right for this customer George Dawson.
And then let's go back to a formal formula and then take a sample of the sales for all of the items
and all of the orders for that same customer irrespective of country irrespective of date irrespective
of everything else because nothing else is here.
We only have customer name and then just divide one by the other and that's exactly what we're going
to expect was going to happen.
And that's what's powered be-I is going to do for us and we can choose this field which is going to
take this field and put it on concentration and Boyda already we have something.
So now we get to make it even more obvious which customers are have a have a positive profit margin
for us and which have a negative profit margin and so we're going to take data colors.
And again which is minimum red maximum that's in blue that we use last time.
This is the new version of the blue string maybe this blue to light.
All right.
So again the science about is all about the colors.
It's all about the conveying the insights and making aesthetic presentations.
All right so there we see already something interesting we can see that we've got customers up here
with positive profit margins right.
So the greater the profit margin the better.
Meaning that at the same level of expenses by doing business with a customer with a higher profit margin
for instance here we've got much of 0.44.
And with this customer it's 0.30 3 so we've discussed them more by having the same amount of expenses
going to or and conducting business by making similar sales.
We're going to make a higher amount of profit for George Dawson than Harrison Coke.
And here we've got some customers whose profit is in the negative and it is just it just makes sense
that their profit margin is also negative because profit can be positive or negative whereas sales can
all be positive.
So if you divide a negative by positive you will get a negative and right away from here we can tell
you know which are our customers like good customers which whom we should continue doing business with
and who are the customers that are costing organization money and maybe we should you know try to improve
that relationship and see what products are buying.
Maybe we should substitute those products or maybe we should find better ways of sourcing those products
or maybe we should just stop doing business with those customers.
If it is causing our business money and if we can afford to do that from a reputational standpoint.
So some decisions have to be made.
But basically the insights are here for us to take action upon.
And there we go that's how we create a scatterplot in power be-I and moreover in this internally also
recapped on how calculated measures work so hopefully that really drives the point home and then you're
getting quite comfortable with calculated measures.
And I look forward to seeing you on the next internal.
Until then happy Anil.